docs/STATUS.md, before:

## Migration to Appeus-2 (In Progress)

This project is being migrated from Appeus v1 to Appeus v2 to take advantage of improved tooling and generation workflows.

### Migration Checklist

- [x] **Git tag pre-migration state**: Tag as `v0.1-appeus-1-rn` before any migration changes
- [x] **Archive RN v1 code**: Move all React Native app files to `rn-v1/` for future reference
- [x] **Clean appeus-1 artifacts**: Remove appeus-1 symlinks and old AGENTS.md files
- [x] **Strip root to basics**: Keep only `design/`, `docs/`, `mock/`, `README.md`, `.gitignore`
- [x] **Initialize appeus-2 project**: Run `/path/to/appeus-2/scripts/init-project.sh`
- [x] **Review project.md**: Complete `design/specs/project.md` with current decisions
  - Production quality (not MVP)
  - Mobile + Web apps
  - Healthcare professional access via web UI
- [ ] **Initialize new mobile app**: Run `./appeus/scripts/add-app.sh --name mobile --framework react-native`
- [x] **Reconcile design folder**: Ensure stories/specs fit appeus-2 structure
  - Migrated `design.org/` content into `design/` (stories/specs/generated)
  - Reorganized schema specs from `specs/api/schema.md` into `specs/schema/*.md`
- [ ] **Manual spec review**: Human review all specs for accuracy and completeness
  - [x] `design/specs/project.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/api/schema.md` (data-access contract)
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/index.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/taxonomy.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/bundles.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/logging.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/components/index.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/general.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/ui.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/project.md` (mobile toolchain lives here; per-target `toolchain.md` removed)
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/dependencies.md` (likely delete; if any deps are “must-use”, restate elsewhere)
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/inline-taxonomy.md` (deleted; inline-add rules belong in the relevant screen specs if/when desired)
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/import-export.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/navigation.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/index.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/log-history.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-entry.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-entry-wizard.md` (decide: archive/delete vs merge)
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/configure-catalog.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-item.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-category.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-bundle.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/sereus-connections.md`
- [ ] **Generate fresh scaffold**: Let appeus-2 generate clean app structure
- [ ] **Regenerate app code**: Agent generates from specs, optionally referencing `rn-v1/` for patterns
- [ ] **Integrate Quereus with persistence**: Configure Quereus persistent mode (optimistic single-node)
- [ ] **Functional testing**: Verify core workflows with persistent data
- [ ] **Cleanup**: Remove `rn-v1/` once new version is stable and tested

### Things to Consider (Revisit After App Boots)

These are known decisions/inconsistencies that are easier to resolve once the rebuilt app is running and you can see the UX.

- [ ] **Defer detailed screen-spec review until the app boots**: once the scaffold runs, re-review `design/specs/mobile/screens/*.md` for correctness and remove stale/over-specified content.
- [ ] **Graphs persistence model**: reconcile whether graphs are ad-hoc (not persisted across restarts) vs saved/named and persisted.
  - Current tension: `design/specs/mobile/navigation.md` vs `design/specs/mobile/global/general.md`.
- [ ] **Inline-create policy**: decide where inline creation is allowed (EditEntry pickers vs Catalog-only vs EditItem-only) and make the relevant screen specs consistent.
- [ ] **EditEntry spec variants**: decide whether to keep `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-entry-wizard.md` (archive/delete vs merge ideas into `edit-entry.md`).
- [ ] **Catalog tab scope**: confirm whether Catalog is a full manager (current), a read-only browser, or removed in favor of inline editing.
- [ ] **Nested bundles**: schema supports nested bundles, but app-level support must be explicit (read/expand/cycle prevention). Decide whether to support nested bundles in MVP.
- [ ] **Deep link parameter conventions**: normalize param names/types across screens (e.g., `GraphCreate.preselectedItems`, `GraphView.graphId`) once those screens are implemented.
- [ ] **Project spec cleanup**: fix any remaining wording/link nits (e.g., “patient” typo, Quereus link target, HIPAA phrasing) after you confirm the desired messaging.
- [ ] **Generated artifacts policy**: confirm whether `design/generated/mobile/site/` should remain in-repo or be treated as build output.
- [ ] **Logo implementation**: how do we implement the logo from `docs/images/` for the mobile app (header + app icons)?
- [ ] **Logo procedure source**: is the logo/icon generation procedure already documented in specs/docs (and if so, where)?

### RN v1 Archive Location

Original React Native code is preserved in `rn-v1/` for reference during regeneration.

To view old implementation:
```bash
# View structure
ls -la rn-v1/

# View specific file
cat rn-v1/src/screens/EditEntry.tsx
```

## Design Status

This file tracks open design questions for Sereus Health so they can be resolved one at a time.

### Open Questions / TODOs

- [ ] **Correlations & insights UX**: Decide how Bob reviews his data to “assess health” beyond the basic graphing story (e.g., filters such as “what usually precedes stomach pain?”, comparison views, saved queries, prebuilt graph templates).
- [x] **Top-level type semantics**: Clarify whether `Activity`, `Condition`, and `Outcome` are fixed top-level types or whether users can define additional top-level types (e.g., `Medication`), and how these are presented in the UI.  
  - Answered in `02-daily.md`: Bob can edit or delete these categories and use other top-level categories instead.
- [x] **Category hierarchy & naming**: Define the allowed hierarchy (type → category → item → group), whether deeper nesting is allowed, and naming rules (e.g., can items belong to multiple categories? can groups be nested?).
- [x] **Taxonomy lifecycle (edit/delete behavior)**: Decide how editing or deleting categories, items, groups, and quantifiers should behave when existing log entries reference them (e.g., rename only, soft delete with retention, hard delete constraints).
- [x] **Scope & sharing of definitions**: Determine whether items, groups, and categories are per-user only or whether there are global/shared templates or presets, and how ownership/visibility works.
- [x] **Quantifier types & constraints**: Enumerate supported quantifier types, allowed ranges/validation, and defaults for newly created quantifiers.
- [x] **Quantifier attachment model**: Confirm whether quantifiers are defined per-item, per-category, or both.
- [x] **EditEntry flow structure**: Decided: Single screen with modal pickers (Option C). Next: Create `specs/screens/EditEntry.md` detailing the modal picker pattern, field layout, validation, and behavior for new/edit/clone modes.
- [ ] **Comment/notes support**: Specify where free-form comments are allowed (per-entry vs per-item within an entry) and any length or formatting constraints.
- [ ] **Catalog screen purpose & scope**: Stories show all item/group creation happening inline during EditEntry flow. Decide: (A) Keep ConfigureCatalog as separate bulk manager, (B) Make it read-only browser, or (C) Remove Catalog tab entirely and do everything inline. Update navigation.md accordingly.
- [ ] **Inline taxonomy creation in EditEntry**: Stories 01, 02, 03 show Bob adding items/groups while logging. Specify how "Add new item" / "Create group" links/buttons work within EditEntry's modal pickers (inline forms, nested modals, navigation to Catalog?).
- [ ] **Search & filtering behavior in pickers**: Define how search/filter behaves when selecting items/groups (case sensitivity, ranking, matching fields, empty-state behavior).
- [ ] **History list presentation**: Specify how log entries are summarized in the main history list (what fields are shown, grouping by day, handling long entries with many items).
- [x] **Time & timezone rules**: Decide how timestamps are captured (device time vs selectable date/time), whether timezone differences matter, and how edits to the timestamp are handled.
- [ ] **Future analytics requirements (non-UI)**: Capture any must-have metrics or correlation capabilities that could influence how we store log entries and quantifiers (e.g., performance expectations, export formats).

### New Questions from Recent Stories

- [x] **Graph configuration model**: For the MVP, confirm that Bob configures graphs by manually selecting specific items (as in the story), and decide any remaining details such as default date range and how item selection is presented.  
  - Answered in stories: Bob manually selects items to graph, then sees a simple configuration view where he can adjust basic settings such as date range before generating the graph.
- [x] **Graph limits & labeling**: Clarify how many graphs can be open at once and how they are labeled or identified within the UI.  
  - Answered in stories: graphs are named by Bob as he creates them and are listed by name so he can move between them. Stories do not impose a hard numeric limit; implementation can choose reasonable limits based on performance.
- [ ] **Graph library selection & GraphView spec**: Select a React Native graphing/chart library and create `specs/screens/GraphView.md` detailing: display/interaction (zoom, pan, legend), graph types (line/bar/scatter), export formats available, and sharing workflow.
- [ ] **GraphCreate screen spec**: Create `specs/screens/GraphCreate.md` detailing: item picker UI (reuse SelectionList?), date range picker, graph name input, and generate flow.
- [ ] **Notification/reminder system spec**: Create `specs/screens/Reminders.md` or add to `specs/global/general.md`: notification permissions, scheduling logic, deep link handling when tapping notification, background task requirements.
- [x] **Sereus node permissions model**: Specify what data each type of node (cadre vs guest) can read/write, and whether Bob can scope which parts of his history or configuration are shared with which nodes.  
  - Answered (initial model): Bob, as owner of his database, ultimately controls permissions on his own data. By default, guest nodes such as his doctor’s node are allowed to **read** his data so they can review his progress; stories do not rely on guests writing to Bob’s data. Finer-grained read/write controls can be added later via schema-level permissions without changing current stories.
- [x] **Settings screen structure**: Decided: `Settings` root screen with list of sections (Sereus, Reminders, future: AI/Preferences/About). Each section pushes to dedicated screen. Next: Update `specs/navigation.md` and create screen specs.
- [ ] **Settings screen spec**: Create `specs/screens/Settings.md` detailing: section list layout, future extensibility (AI, Preferences, Data Management, About).
- [ ] **SereusConnections screen spec**: Create `specs/screens/SereusConnections.md` detailing: QR scanning flow, node list display (cadre vs guest), node management (rename, status, remove), and add-node prompts.
- [x] **Sync & conflict resolution**: Describe how real-time sync behaves when multiple nodes update the same data (e.g., tie-breaking strategy, eventual consistency expectations, offline edits).

### Schema & Data Model

- [x] **Database schema design**: Consolidated into `design/specs/schema/*.md` (authoritative)
  - `schema/taxonomy.md`, `schema/bundles.md`, `schema/logging.md`
  - `specs/api/schema.md` now documents the local “data access” contract (not HTTP)

### Quereus Integration (BLOCKED - Critical RN Incompatibilities)

**Implementation Status:**
- [x] **Add Quereus dependency**: Installed `@quereus/quereus@^0.4.11`
- [x] **Create database initialization**: `src/db/index.ts` with Database instance, MemoryTableModule registration, and default pragmas
- [x] **Translate schema to declarative SQL**: Created `src/db/schema.ts` with full declarative schema matching `design/specs/api/schema.md`
- [x] **Production & sample seed data**: Separated into `schema.ts` (production) and `schema.samples.ts` (dev only)
- [x] **Implement SQL adapters**: Created `src/db/stats.ts` and `src/db/logEntries.ts` with full SQL implementation
- [x] **Add feature flag**: Created `src/db/config.ts` with `USE_QUEREUS` toggle (default: false)
- [x] **Preserve Appeus mock system**: Updated adapters to fall back to existing `mock/data/*.json` when `USE_QUEREUS = false`
- [x] **Document RN issues**: Comprehensive issue tracking in `docs/quereus-rn-issues.md`

**Current Status:**
- **App runs with `USE_QUEREUS = false`** (using Appeus mock data)
- **Quereus integration is BLOCKED** by fundamental React Native incompatibilities (see below)
- All Quereus code is committed and documented for future use

**Blocking Issues** (see `docs/quereus-rn-issues.md` for details):
1. ✅ **RESOLVED**: Missing `structuredClone` global - Fixed with polyfill in `index.js`
2. ✅ **RESOLVED**: Dynamic `import()` not supported - Fixed with patches to `node_modules/@quereus/quereus`
3. ❌ **ACTIVE**: NULL parameter validation bug - Workaround: using direct SQL for nullable columns
4. ❌ **CRITICAL**: Transaction data loss - Data disappears after COMMIT, autocommit mode has same issue
5. ❌ **CRITICAL**: Internal data structure corruption - `primaryKeys.add is not a function` errors

**Issues #4 and #5 are fundamental** and suggest Quereus's in-memory MemoryTable is not compatible with React Native's JavaScript engine (Hermes). These cannot be worked around without deep changes to Quereus's core.

**Cleanup Checklist for When Quereus RN Support is Fixed:**

Once Quereus resolves the RN compatibility issues, perform these cleanup steps:

- [ ] **Remove workarounds in `src/db/schema.ts`**:
  - [ ] Remove comment about autocommit workaround
  - [ ] Re-add `BEGIN` transaction at start of `applyProductionSeeds()`
  - [ ] Re-add `COMMIT` and `ROLLBACK` error handling
  - [ ] Remove verification SELECT query (debugging code)

- [ ] **Remove workarounds in `src/db/schema.samples.ts`**:
  - [ ] Remove comment about autocommit workaround  
  - [ ] Re-add `BEGIN` transaction at start of `applySampleData()`
  - [ ] Re-add `COMMIT` and `ROLLBACK` error handling
  - [ ] **Replace direct SQL with prepared statements** for:
    - [ ] Item quantifiers insert (line ~101)
    - [ ] Log entries insert (line ~130)
    - [ ] Log entry items insert (line ~140)
  - [ ] Remove all `db.exec()` string interpolation for INSERTs
  - [ ] Remove special NULL handling (use native `null` in arrays)

- [ ] **Remove patches to `node_modules/@quereus/quereus`**:
  - [ ] Remove patch to `plugin-loader.js` (or update package.json to apply automatically)
  - [ ] Remove patch to `schema-hasher.js` (or update package.json to apply automatically)
  - [ ] Consider documenting patches if they need to persist

- [ ] **Remove polyfills from `index.js`**:
  - [ ] Remove `structuredClone` polyfill (only if Quereus includes its own)

- [ ] **Update logging in `src/db/init.ts`**:
  - [ ] Remove excessive debug logging added for troubleshooting
  - [ ] Keep only info-level logs for initialization milestones
  - [ ] Remove verification queries and type counting

- [ ] **Set `USE_QUEREUS = true` in `src/db/config.ts`**
  - [ ] Test full CRUD operations
  - [ ] Test with multiple log entries
  - [ ] Test bundle expansion
  - [ ] Test quantifier values
  - [ ] Verify EditEntry stats queries work
  - [ ] Verify LogHistory queries work

- [ ] **Archive or remove `docs/quereus-rn-issues.md`**:
  - [ ] If issues are fully resolved, move to `docs/archive/` or delete
  - [ ] If some workarounds remain, update status to reflect what's fixed

- [ ] **Update `docs/STATUS.md`**:
  - [ ] Mark Quereus integration as complete
  - [ ] Remove this cleanup checklist
  - [ ] Document any remaining limitations or known issues

### Build & Deployment

- [x] **Create git repo and push**: Initialize git repository and push work to remote.
- [x] **Implement fastlane build system**: Set up fastlane similar to what exists in `devel/mypitch` for automated builds and deployment.
- [x] **Configure real keystore files**: Use real Android keystore files specified by environment variables (not committed to repo).
- [x] **Integrate app logos**: Add app icons/logos for Android and iOS builds.
- [ ] **Verify Quereus integration still works**: Confirm running the app with `USE_QUEREUS = true` still functions after recent changes.

### Features

- [x] **Log import/export**: Per Story 04 - contextual CSV export (filtered or all), import from CSV files with auto-creation of types/categories/items.
- [x] **Catalog import/export**: Per Story 09 - contextual CSV export/import from Catalog screen, bulk populate from external sources.
- [x] **Full backup/restore**: Per Story 09 - complete JSON backup/restore from Settings (JSON is valid YAML).

### Possible Future Enhancements (Post-MVP)

- [ ] **Saved/named graph templates**: Allow Bob to save a configured graph (selected items, date range, options) under a name and reopen or tweak it later, instead of recreating it from scratch each time.
- [ ] **AI-assisted insights portal**: Provide an in-app "analysis" or "insights" view where an AI agent can help Bob explore his data (e.g., "what seems correlated with my headaches?") using his stored logs as context.
- [ ] **Built-in statistical/correlation analysis**: Add native statistical tools (e.g., basic correlation, trend detection, comparisons) so Bob can go beyond raw graphs, without exporting to external tools.

Commit message:

Attempt to track system theme

docs/STATUS.md, after:

## Migration to Appeus-2 (In Progress)

This project is being migrated from Appeus v1 to Appeus v2 to take advantage of improved tooling and generation workflows.

### Migration Checklist

- [x] **Git tag pre-migration state**: Tag as `v0.1-appeus-1-rn` before any migration changes
- [x] **Archive RN v1 code**: Move all React Native app files to `rn-v1/` for future reference
- [x] **Clean appeus-1 artifacts**: Remove appeus-1 symlinks and old AGENTS.md files
- [x] **Strip root to basics**: Keep only `design/`, `docs/`, `mock/`, `README.md`, `.gitignore`
- [x] **Initialize appeus-2 project**: Run `/path/to/appeus-2/scripts/init-project.sh`
- [x] **Review project.md**: Complete `design/specs/project.md` with current decisions
  - Production quality (not MVP)
  - Mobile + Web apps
  - Healthcare professional access via web UI
- [ ] **Initialize new mobile app**: Run `./appeus/scripts/add-app.sh --name mobile --framework react-native`
- [x] **Reconcile design folder**: Ensure stories/specs fit appeus-2 structure
  - Migrated `design.org/` content into `design/` (stories/specs/generated)
  - Reorganized schema specs from `specs/api/schema.md` into `specs/schema/*.md`
- [ ] **Manual spec review**: Human review all specs for accuracy and completeness
  - [x] `design/specs/project.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/api/schema.md` (data-access contract)
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/index.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/taxonomy.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/bundles.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/schema/logging.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/components/index.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/general.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/ui.md`
  - [x] `design/specs/project.md` (mobile toolchain lives here; per-target `toolchain.md` removed)
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/dependencies.md` (likely delete; if any deps are “must-use”, restate elsewhere)
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/inline-taxonomy.md` (deleted; inline-add rules belong in the relevant screen specs if/when desired)
  - [x] `design/specs/mobile/global/import-export.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/navigation.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/index.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/log-history.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-entry.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-entry-wizard.md` (decide: archive/delete vs merge)
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/configure-catalog.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-item.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-category.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-bundle.md`
  - [ ] `design/specs/mobile/screens/sereus-connections.md`
- [ ] **Generate fresh scaffold**: Let appeus-2 generate clean app structure
- [ ] **Regenerate app code**: Agent generates from specs, optionally referencing `rn-v1/` for patterns
- [ ] **Integrate Quereus with persistence**: Configure Quereus persistent mode (optimistic single-node)
- [ ] **Functional testing**: Verify core workflows with persistent data
- [ ] **Cleanup**: Remove `rn-v1/` once new version is stable and tested

### Things to Consider (Revisit After App Boots)

These are known decisions/inconsistencies that are easier to resolve once the rebuilt app is running and you can see the UX.

- [ ] **Theme on real device**: verify system light/dark switching works on a physical iOS/Android device (emulator/simulator is not reflecting changes reliably).
- [ ] **Theme preferences**: implement a user preference in Settings to select **System | Light | Dark** (override system appearance when chosen).
- [ ] **Defer detailed screen-spec review until the app boots**: once the scaffold runs, re-review `design/specs/mobile/screens/*.md` for correctness and remove stale/over-specified content.
- [ ] **Graphs persistence model**: reconcile whether graphs are ad-hoc (not persisted across restarts) vs saved/named and persisted.
  - Current tension: `design/specs/mobile/navigation.md` vs `design/specs/mobile/global/general.md`.
- [ ] **Inline-create policy**: decide where inline creation is allowed (EditEntry pickers vs Catalog-only vs EditItem-only) and make the relevant screen specs consistent.
- [ ] **EditEntry spec variants**: decide whether to keep `design/specs/mobile/screens/edit-entry-wizard.md` (archive/delete vs merge ideas into `edit-entry.md`).
- [ ] **Catalog tab scope**: confirm whether Catalog is a full manager (current), a read-only browser, or removed in favor of inline editing.
- [ ] **Nested bundles**: schema supports nested bundles, but app-level support must be explicit (read/expand/cycle prevention). Decide whether to support nested bundles in MVP.
- [ ] **Deep link parameter conventions**: normalize param names/types across screens (e.g., `GraphCreate.preselectedItems`, `GraphView.graphId`) once those screens are implemented.
- [ ] **Project spec cleanup**: fix any remaining wording/link nits (e.g., “patient” typo, Quereus link target, HIPAA phrasing) after you confirm the desired messaging.
- [ ] **Generated artifacts policy**: confirm whether `design/generated/mobile/site/` should remain in-repo or be treated as build output.
- [ ] **Logo implementation**: how do we implement the logo from `docs/images/` for the mobile app (header + app icons)?
- [ ] **Logo procedure source**: is the logo/icon generation procedure already documented in specs/docs (and if so, where)?

### RN v1 Archive Location

Original React Native code is preserved in `rn-v1/` for reference during regeneration.

To view old implementation:
```bash
# View structure
ls -la rn-v1/

# View specific file
cat rn-v1/src/screens/EditEntry.tsx
```

## Design Status

This file tracks open design questions for Sereus Health so they can be resolved one at a time.

### Open Questions / TODOs

- [ ] **Correlations & insights UX**: Decide how Bob reviews his data to “assess health” beyond the basic graphing story (e.g., filters such as “what usually precedes stomach pain?”, comparison views, saved queries, prebuilt graph templates).
- [x] **Top-level type semantics**: Clarify whether `Activity`, `Condition`, and `Outcome` are fixed top-level types or whether users can define additional top-level types (e.g., `Medication`), and how these are presented in the UI.  
  - Answered in `02-daily.md`: Bob can edit or delete these categories and use other top-level categories instead.
- [x] **Category hierarchy & naming**: Define the allowed hierarchy (type → category → item → group), whether deeper nesting is allowed, and naming rules (e.g., can items belong to multiple categories? can groups be nested?).
- [x] **Taxonomy lifecycle (edit/delete behavior)**: Decide how editing or deleting categories, items, groups, and quantifiers should behave when existing log entries reference them (e.g., rename only, soft delete with retention, hard delete constraints).
- [x] **Scope & sharing of definitions**: Determine whether items, groups, and categories are per-user only or whether there are global/shared templates or presets, and how ownership/visibility works.
- [x] **Quantifier types & constraints**: Enumerate supported quantifier types, allowed ranges/validation, and defaults for newly created quantifiers.
- [x] **Quantifier attachment model**: Confirm whether quantifiers are defined per-item, per-category, or both.
- [x] **EditEntry flow structure**: Decided: Single screen with modal pickers (Option C). Next: Create `specs/screens/EditEntry.md` detailing the modal picker pattern, field layout, validation, and behavior for new/edit/clone modes.
- [ ] **Comment/notes support**: Specify where free-form comments are allowed (per-entry vs per-item within an entry) and any length or formatting constraints.
- [ ] **Catalog screen purpose & scope**: Stories show all item/group creation happening inline during EditEntry flow. Decide: (A) Keep ConfigureCatalog as separate bulk manager, (B) Make it read-only browser, or (C) Remove Catalog tab entirely and do everything inline. Update navigation.md accordingly.
- [ ] **Inline taxonomy creation in EditEntry**: Stories 01, 02, 03 show Bob adding items/groups while logging. Specify how "Add new item" / "Create group" links/buttons work within EditEntry's modal pickers (inline forms, nested modals, navigation to Catalog?).
- [ ] **Search & filtering behavior in pickers**: Define how search/filter behaves when selecting items/groups (case sensitivity, ranking, matching fields, empty-state behavior).
- [ ] **History list presentation**: Specify how log entries are summarized in the main history list (what fields are shown, grouping by day, handling long entries with many items).
- [x] **Time & timezone rules**: Decide how timestamps are captured (device time vs selectable date/time), whether timezone differences matter, and how edits to the timestamp are handled.
- [ ] **Future analytics requirements (non-UI)**: Capture any must-have metrics or correlation capabilities that could influence how we store log entries and quantifiers (e.g., performance expectations, export formats).

### New Questions from Recent Stories

- [x] **Graph configuration model**: For the MVP, confirm that Bob configures graphs by manually selecting specific items (as in the story), and decide any remaining details such as default date range and how item selection is presented.  
  - Answered in stories: Bob manually selects items to graph, then sees a simple configuration view where he can adjust basic settings such as date range before generating the graph.
- [x] **Graph limits & labeling**: Clarify how many graphs can be open at once and how they are labeled or identified within the UI.  
  - Answered in stories: graphs are named by Bob as he creates them and are listed by name so he can move between them. Stories do not impose a hard numeric limit; implementation can choose reasonable limits based on performance.
- [ ] **Graph library selection & GraphView spec**: Select a React Native graphing/chart library and create `specs/screens/GraphView.md` detailing: display/interaction (zoom, pan, legend), graph types (line/bar/scatter), export formats available, and sharing workflow.
- [ ] **GraphCreate screen spec**: Create `specs/screens/GraphCreate.md` detailing: item picker UI (reuse SelectionList?), date range picker, graph name input, and generate flow.
- [ ] **Notification/reminder system spec**: Create `specs/screens/Reminders.md` or add to `specs/global/general.md`: notification permissions, scheduling logic, deep link handling when tapping notification, background task requirements.
- [x] **Sereus node permissions model**: Specify what data each type of node (cadre vs guest) can read/write, and whether Bob can scope which parts of his history or configuration are shared with which nodes.  
  - Answered (initial model): Bob, as owner of his database, ultimately controls permissions on his own data. By default, guest nodes such as his doctor’s node are allowed to **read** his data so they can review his progress; stories do not rely on guests writing to Bob’s data. Finer-grained read/write controls can be added later via schema-level permissions without changing current stories.
- [x] **Settings screen structure**: Decided: `Settings` root screen with list of sections (Sereus, Reminders, future: AI/Preferences/About). Each section pushes to dedicated screen. Next: Update `specs/navigation.md` and create screen specs.
- [ ] **Settings screen spec**: Create `specs/screens/Settings.md` detailing: section list layout, future extensibility (AI, Preferences, Data Management, About).
- [ ] **SereusConnections screen spec**: Create `specs/screens/SereusConnections.md` detailing: QR scanning flow, node list display (cadre vs guest), node management (rename, status, remove), and add-node prompts.
- [x] **Sync & conflict resolution**: Describe how real-time sync behaves when multiple nodes update the same data (e.g., tie-breaking strategy, eventual consistency expectations, offline edits).

### Schema & Data Model

- [x] **Database schema design**: Consolidated into `design/specs/schema/*.md` (authoritative)
  - `schema/taxonomy.md`, `schema/bundles.md`, `schema/logging.md`
  - `specs/api/schema.md` now documents the local “data access” contract (not HTTP)

### Quereus Integration (BLOCKED - Critical RN Incompatibilities)

**Implementation Status:**
- [x] **Add Quereus dependency**: Installed `@quereus/quereus@^0.4.11`
- [x] **Create database initialization**: `src/db/index.ts` with Database instance, MemoryTableModule registration, and default pragmas
- [x] **Translate schema to declarative SQL**: Created `src/db/schema.ts` with full declarative schema matching `design/specs/api/schema.md`
- [x] **Production & sample seed data**: Separated into `schema.ts` (production) and `schema.samples.ts` (dev only)
- [x] **Implement SQL adapters**: Created `src/db/stats.ts` and `src/db/logEntries.ts` with full SQL implementation
- [x] **Add feature flag**: Created `src/db/config.ts` with `USE_QUEREUS` toggle (default: false)
- [x] **Preserve Appeus mock system**: Updated adapters to fall back to existing `mock/data/*.json` when `USE_QUEREUS = false`
- [x] **Document RN issues**: Comprehensive issue tracking in `docs/quereus-rn-issues.md`

**Current Status:**
- **App runs with `USE_QUEREUS = false`** (using Appeus mock data)
- **Quereus integration is BLOCKED** by fundamental React Native incompatibilities (see below)
- All Quereus code is committed and documented for future use

**Blocking Issues** (see `docs/quereus-rn-issues.md` for details):
1. ✅ **RESOLVED**: Missing `structuredClone` global - Fixed with polyfill in `index.js`
2. ✅ **RESOLVED**: Dynamic `import()` not supported - Fixed with patches to `node_modules/@quereus/quereus`
3. ❌ **ACTIVE**: NULL parameter validation bug - Workaround: using direct SQL for nullable columns
4. ❌ **CRITICAL**: Transaction data loss - Data disappears after COMMIT, autocommit mode has same issue
5. ❌ **CRITICAL**: Internal data structure corruption - `primaryKeys.add is not a function` errors

**Issues #4 and #5 are fundamental** and suggest Quereus's in-memory MemoryTable is not compatible with React Native's JavaScript engine (Hermes). These cannot be worked around without deep changes to Quereus's core.

**Cleanup Checklist for When Quereus RN Support is Fixed:**

Once Quereus resolves the RN compatibility issues, perform these cleanup steps:

- [ ] **Remove workarounds in `src/db/schema.ts`**:
  - [ ] Remove comment about autocommit workaround
  - [ ] Re-add `BEGIN` transaction at start of `applyProductionSeeds()`
  - [ ] Re-add `COMMIT` and `ROLLBACK` error handling
  - [ ] Remove verification SELECT query (debugging code)

- [ ] **Remove workarounds in `src/db/schema.samples.ts`**:
  - [ ] Remove comment about autocommit workaround  
  - [ ] Re-add `BEGIN` transaction at start of `applySampleData()`
  - [ ] Re-add `COMMIT` and `ROLLBACK` error handling
  - [ ] **Replace direct SQL with prepared statements** for:
    - [ ] Item quantifiers insert (line ~101)
    - [ ] Log entries insert (line ~130)
    - [ ] Log entry items insert (line ~140)
  - [ ] Remove all `db.exec()` string interpolation for INSERTs
  - [ ] Remove special NULL handling (use native `null` in arrays)

- [ ] **Remove patches to `node_modules/@quereus/quereus`**:
  - [ ] Remove patch to `plugin-loader.js` (or update package.json to apply automatically)
  - [ ] Remove patch to `schema-hasher.js` (or update package.json to apply automatically)
  - [ ] Consider documenting patches if they need to persist

- [ ] **Remove polyfills from `index.js`**:
  - [ ] Remove `structuredClone` polyfill (only if Quereus includes its own)

- [ ] **Update logging in `src/db/init.ts`**:
  - [ ] Remove excessive debug logging added for troubleshooting
  - [ ] Keep only info-level logs for initialization milestones
  - [ ] Remove verification queries and type counting

- [ ] **Set `USE_QUEREUS = true` in `src/db/config.ts`**
  - [ ] Test full CRUD operations
  - [ ] Test with multiple log entries
  - [ ] Test bundle expansion
  - [ ] Test quantifier values
  - [ ] Verify EditEntry stats queries work
  - [ ] Verify LogHistory queries work

- [ ] **Archive or remove `docs/quereus-rn-issues.md`**:
  - [ ] If issues are fully resolved, move to `docs/archive/` or delete
  - [ ] If some workarounds remain, update status to reflect what's fixed

- [ ] **Update `docs/STATUS.md`**:
  - [ ] Mark Quereus integration as complete
  - [ ] Remove this cleanup checklist
  - [ ] Document any remaining limitations or known issues

### Build & Deployment

- [x] **Create git repo and push**: Initialize git repository and push work to remote.
- [x] **Implement fastlane build system**: Set up fastlane similar to what exists in `devel/mypitch` for automated builds and deployment.
- [x] **Configure real keystore files**: Use real Android keystore files specified by environment variables (not committed to repo).
- [x] **Integrate app logos**: Add app icons/logos for Android and iOS builds.
- [ ] **Verify Quereus integration still works**: Confirm running the app with `USE_QUEREUS = true` still functions after recent changes.

### Features

- [x] **Log import/export**: Per Story 04 - contextual CSV export (filtered or all), import from CSV files with auto-creation of types/categories/items.
- [x] **Catalog import/export**: Per Story 09 - contextual CSV export/import from Catalog screen, bulk populate from external sources.
- [x] **Full backup/restore**: Per Story 09 - complete JSON backup/restore from Settings (JSON is valid YAML).

### Possible Future Enhancements (Post-MVP)

- [ ] **Saved/named graph templates**: Allow Bob to save a configured graph (selected items, date range, options) under a name and reopen or tweak it later, instead of recreating it from scratch each time.
- [ ] **AI-assisted insights portal**: Provide an in-app "analysis" or "insights" view where an AI agent can help Bob explore his data (e.g., "what seems correlated with my headaches?") using his stored logs as context.
- [ ] **Built-in statistical/correlation analysis**: Add native statistical tools (e.g., basic correlation, trend detection, comparisons) so Bob can go beyond raw graphs, without exporting to external tools.
